# Business Microservices

Our project is a microservices-based web application that uses Python (Django) to provide a secure, scalable, and reliable platform for jwt authentication and business data management.

## Initial Thinking

we can use the Django REST Framework and implement JWT authentication. We would need to create endpoints for user registration, login, and logout. We can use a library like djangorestframework_simplejwt to handle JWT token generation and validation.

For the Business microservice, we would need to create a model for the Business object with fields for Name and Location data. We can then create endpoints for retrieving and creating Business objects. We would also need to implement functionality to filter Business objects within 10 km of a given location.

To secure the Business API, we would need to use the JWT tokens generated by the authentication microservice. We can add a custom authentication class to the Business API that checks for a valid JWT token in the request headers.

After developing and testing the microservices locally, we can dockerize both services and create a docker-compose.yml file to run them together. We can also create Dockerfiles for each service to build the images.

For continuous integration and deployment, we can use GitHub Actions to automatically build and deploy the services when new code changes are committed to the GitHub repository and We can use Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) and Nginx.

In summary, the project involves developing two Django microservices, securing the Business microservice with JWT authentication, dockerizing both microservices and build an automatic deployment pipeline.

## Development Plan

- Determine the requirements and specifications.
- Design the API endpoints.
- Develop the authentication API.
- Develop the business API.
- Secure the business API.
- Dockerize the application.
- Setup CI/CD pipeline.
- Test the application & deploy to EC2 Instance

__Security:__ most of the APIs are secured by `IsAuthenticated` permission class.

__Filter & Discover:__ to filter location within `10KM radius`, I have used `bing map` to find the location and `coordenation` then store the location and coordenation during creation of business. each time a location is search, the `map` finds it's `coordinates` from `map` and `database` then compares with the radius of the location.

__Code Documentation:__ tried to use standard django documentation format for all the classes and methods.

__Pipeline:__ tried to run Django and Nginx within docker and expose the port to EC2 Instance. We used SQLite ans we don't require to use any database in docker. It is possible to use any databse engine in the docker environment with separate port to access.


## Technology Stack

- Python: The primary programming language used to develop both the authentication and business APIs.
- Django: A popular web framework for Python that provides a range of tools and libraries for building web applications, including RESTful APIs.
- Django REST framework: A web framework for building RESTful APIs using python.
- JWT: JSON Web Tokens are used for authentication in the application, providing a secure way for users to log in and access protected resources.
- Docker: A containerization platform used to package the application and its dependencies into portable containers that can be run on any system with Docker installed.
- GitHub: A code hosting platform used for version control and collaboration.
- AWS: A cloud computing platform used for hosting the application, setting up CI/CD pipelines, and managing infrastructure.


## Setup

Clone the repository first then go to the directory ` mbapp `.

```
git clone https://github.com/ishtiyak9/mbapp.git
cd mbapp
```
[install virtual environment](<https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/>)

Create virtual environment and activate

install requirements from the `requirements.txt` file
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Run the application locally
```
python manage.py runserver
```
migrate database
```
python manage.py migrate
```
no need to run other database engines like mysql or postgressql as the project is running SQLite databse and the database is enough to perform the migrations and task we are about to perform.

## Home Page Navigation

In the beautiful homepage, there are TWO options available.

- Admin Panel
- API Documentation

Explore

**Admin Panel**
will redirect to django admin with is default admin panel of Django

**API Documentation** will redirect to a swagger API documentation which is setted to explore all APIs available. a redoc documentation also available for them who loves, nevigate to left cornar at menu bar icon and click the redoc documentation option.

# Useful URLs
[Visit site](http://75.101.237.83/)
[Postman API Documentation](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/12480315/2s93XsXkvR)


